# RPT5

Let's start by building a list of files based on enqueues.

If the enqueue's `data.nesting` is 0 and it has no `data.file`, then `data.name` is the file name. Otherwise, it's a test or suite within a file.

Add a function to build a summary output showing files that were run.

For enqueues that don't meet file criteria, add as a test.

In the summary function, sort tests by file and line number and print with indenting based on nesting.

NEXT:

- when a test is a child of another test, flag the parent started.
- when a test in a file is started, flag the file started.
- when a test passes, flag it passed and set run time.

## Finding the parent of a test

Assume I have the following

-- TEST A -- nesting 0
----- TEST B -- nesting 1
----- TEST C -- nesting 2
-------- TEST D -- nesting 3
----- TEST E -- nesting 4

A parent test must:

- Be in the same file as the child test (same fileIdx).
- Have nesting one less than the child test's nesting.
- Start on a line before the child test. (Can use NTR's line, even though it isn't right for TS, it is relatively right.)

If I filter tests by fileIdx and nesting and line number less than the child test, then if I sort by line number, the last test is the parent.

The issue is, I need the index of that test in the original array and filter will lose it. Sorting will also change the index.

The easiest answer may be to store index in the test object, which is just `array.length || 0`. Then I can get the index from the object even after filtering and sorting.

So, with index in the test object, filter by fileIdx, nesting, and line number. Then reduce to find the max test line.

And that's working. There may be a better way to do this if I smart-key the tests or group them by file so the array operations are over smaller arrays, but that's probably only an issue for large test sets.

For example, I could build a `Map` by file name and store the test array for each file separately, but that seems like it might introduce other inefficiencies because I'd need to look up the array, update it, and set it every time I wanted to change it.

## Updating parent pass/fail statistics based on children

When a child test passes or fails, I want to update the pass/fail counter in the parent.

- Do I want to update the parent's parent up the chain? I think so.
- I want to update the pass/fail count for the file too.

The reason I think I want to update test statuses up the chain is because I'd like to build a display like below with color coding. (I really want a reactive console system that updates based on data structures.)

```text
    PASS filepath/file testcount passcount failcount
        > SuiteName testcount passcount failcount   // may collapse details for files after completion, if I can detect that
            (check) testname
            (check) testname
            > Suitename testcount passcount failcount
              (check) testname
        > Suitename testcount passcount failcount
        ...
    FAIL filepath/file testcount passcount failcount
        > SuiteName testcount passcount failcount
            (check) testname
            (x) testname
        > Suitename testcount passcount failcount    STARTED filepath/file testcount passcount failcount
        ...
    STARTED filepath/file
        (check) testname
        ...
    RUNS filepath/file

    FAIL testname (details)

    FAIL testname (details)
```

Right now, I'd be happy to write that after the tests run, but I'd like to update the display as data changes.

Counters are updating. Need to improve output summary formatting.

# Next steps

Add pass/fail markers on suites.

I need to set up more tests to better exercise the summary.

- A suite with another suite inside it (do test suite lines show suite counts)
- A test file with no suites, only tests (do file lines hide suite if no suites)

Need to record errors and list at end of summary.